hi everyone today I'm going to give you
a tour of Jesus College Cambridge this
is where I eat sleep study socialize and
live as a member of the University of
Cambridge we have just walked in along a
pathway it called the chimney which is
the main entrance to the college as you
enter the college through the gates
you walk into first court this is the
old porters Lodge currently it is
undergoing some building works so it is
not in use at the moment instead there
is a temporary porters cabin by the
entrance
many people park their bikes down the
chimney although it's a prime place for
them to get stolen and the Masters large
entrance is also just off the chimney
with a master of the college lips the
grass of first court is immaculate and
it is strictly forbidden to walk with it
in particular you will get in big
trouble if you go and ride the horse on
first courts however it will be
legendary if you pull it off whilst the
building works are going on the porters
Lodge has relocated to the martial room
which looks out over first call all
students of the college have a
pigeonhole in this room as well where
their mail is put the porters Lodge is
manned 24 hours a day and the porters
are always really really helpful if you
ever have a problem the answer is
usually to go to the porters Lodge
they've saved me when I've locked myself
out my room and many a-time opposite the
porters Lodge is the entrance to Hall I
go here every day for my meals when it's
busy the queue for the cafeteria is
usually winding all the way up these
stairs
[Music]
the college cafeteria is known as cat
for short
there is usually a range of hot meals to
choose from on the serving stations
everyone helps themself to a tray
cutlery and glass of water and then you
ask the catering staff for your food of
choice and go and pay at the till this
is the college hall where we eat our
meals at cap it is currently set up for
a function but normally there are three
long tables with wooden chairs the walls
are filled with portraits of previous
masters of the college and here are the
high tables where the fellows of the
college sit at formal dinners after cap
is finished for the day
the hall is usually transformed for
formal dinners these are three-course
meals which we wear our gowns to and we
attend on special occasions
alcohol is up the stairs from bull-calf
dinner is sometimes relocated to upper
pool when the hall is busy again it is
currently set up for a function this is
also the room where I matriculated that
is I became a member of Jesus College on
your first day you sign a book which
makes you a member of Jesus College for
life as you exit Hall you walk into
cloister court this is one of the
smallest courts in the college but it is
also one of the prettiest and oldest
parts of college
[Music]
the entrance to the Jesus chapel is also
in Costa Court it is the oldest college
chapel in Cambridge regular services are
held here and the choral even songs with
the Chapel Choir are very popular other
college events are also held in the
chapel including a blues and chill music
night behind first court we have second
court with plenty of weirdly shaped
hedges most of second court is filled
with Coolidge departments and offices in
particular my director of studies has
their office in this court and I have my
super visions there regularly this is
the archway where I sat and waited for
my interview for the college I can't
believe that was over two years ago now
as with all courts in college we are not
allowed to walk on the grass this is the
old college bar which has since been
relocated
[Music]
next to second court we have Chapel
courts as you might have guessed the
college chapel backs on to this Court
it is used for undergraduate
accommodation and the majority of the
rooms are reserved for first-year
students almost all of the rooms are
unsweet and it's where I lived last year
the building blocks are divided up into
staircases and each staircase has a
kitchen shared between its residents
[Music]
I lived in this staircase last year here
is the view of the chapel from outside
this is the second half of chapel Court
which houses both first and second year
students although the rooms at this end
are not supposed to be as nice there is
also a laundry room in one of these
staircases which the residents of Chapel
Court can use you can exit Chapel Court
through an archway which leads to
library court which you guessed it
contains the library there is plenty of
modern art to be seen around college
including these feature pieces the Jesus
College Library was opened in 1996 to
celebrate the 500th anniversary of the
college as you can see it was also
opened by Her Majesty the Queen
her son Prince Edward actually attended
Jesus College and visited last year the
library has three floors and is one of
my favorite places to study in Cambridge
there are machines which you can use to
borrow books and the librarian is always
on hand to help
[Music]
these little rooms off the side of the
library are highly sought after and are
perfect if you want your own little
study space there are also plenty of
booths in which you can work there are
various rooms used for particular
purposes such as group study and silent
study Here I am taking the spiral
staircase up to the top floor the top
floor is my favorite place to study
because I find it to be the quietest
part of the library and it's also close
to the science books section
[Music]
this is the garden room one of the
places where you're allowed to talk and
study in a group and on the other side
of the court there is more accommodation
used for first-year undergraduate
students here is the overall view of
library court complete with the Modern
Art in the center around the outskirts
of the college are all the sports
pictures the large grounds of Jesus
College mean that we have the only
courage to have our sports pictures all
on site and here is the cricket pavilion
this is often used for events including
the Natural Sciences Society drinks and
nibbles
[Music]
here is the college maintenance
department which is next to the college
tennis courts the tennis courts are
found for Hinds North Court which is
another block of undergraduate
accommodation there are lots of cycle
parks around college since most students
own a bike Northcott residents are a mix
of first and second years there is even
more undergraduate accommodation in
houses along the roads next to the
college which are not featured in this
video this part of college is called the
orchard where for once you're allowed to
walk on the grass there are plenty of
sculptures and artwork in between the
trees this is the entrance to the
fellows garden which I've only been in
twice you are not allowed to enter
unless you are invited by a fellow and
now we come to west court home to the
college bar and cafe
the Coolidge bar and cafe is very new it
was only opened a year or so ago and it
is arguably one of the best cafes and
bars of all the Cambridge colleges known
as the roost cafe during the day and J
bar at night
it is one of the best places to
socialize and is used a lot by all the
students at the college it's also a
great place to study over a cup of
coffee exiting through the other side of
the cafe brings you to the court itself
[Music]
here's the Jesus College shield with the
Jesus cockerel
[Music]
here is the conference center which is
not used much by students it has a big
reception area and also a large lecture
hall there is also plenty of guest
accommodation in West Court I often walk
through this building to get access to
marshal courts as well as more housing
the entrance to the college Study Center
is also found here often known as the
study fortress it is a winding maze of a
building where supervisions are often
held there are plenty of rooms to be
booked which have whiteboards in them
and tables and chairs as always all the
whiteboard pens seem to have gone
missing here we have the games room
undergraduate students are free to use
this when they like and it has a pool
table and plenty of board games next
door we have the JCR which is the
undergraduate common room it's a bit of
a mess at the moment but it has a big TV
which we can use to watch films on and
again it's a space we are free to use
whenever we like continuing past West
Core we reached the coolest gyms and
squash courts all students have free
membership of the gym and there is both
a cardio and weights gym they are both
used well although not going to lie to
you I personally don't frequent this
area of college too often
[Music]
lastly we have the houses which are used
for postgraduate accommodation and
that's it so thank you very much for
watching I hope this video has given you
some more insight into my life at uni
please do give it a like if you enjoyed
subscribe for more videos to find out
more about my life that you need and
I'll see you soon with another video bye